---
layout: post
title: Static
excerpt: In which I explain why and how I moved this blog to a static site generator (namely Jekyll). And if you’re thinking about doing it, it might be a lot easier than you think.
description: My thoughts after I moved my blog to a static site generator (Jekyll).
hashtag: ccStatic
categories: [Articles]
published: true
---

<span data-typography="I">I loved the idea of static site generators</span> from the first time I heard about them. What? No database? No logging into some CMS? Just HTML and Markdown files?

But I didn't get started right away. I figured it would be way too complicated (read: nerdy). I'm not a hardcore Ruby developer or a command line ninja. When I read the getting started documentation on the Jekyll (my SSG of choice) I figured it had to be a lot harder than running the two or three commands they tell you to to get started. So I waited until I had some “time”, created test directories read through some tutorials and figured I’d start, what would inevitably be, my educational saga.

I cracked open terminal, got into my test directory and ran the first command:

	$ gem install jekyll

As I’m sure you guessed, this install the Jekyll ruby gem. Then I ran:

	$ jekyll new test-dir
	
And there it was. I was up and running! 

Now to get things *exactly* how you want you will probably need to do some more work and perhaps look at that tutorial again. But over all, making the shift was way easier than expected.

Here’s the obligatory pros and cons list for using a static site generator.

### Pros:
* **It’s fast**. Serving up static HTML is about as performant as you can get (it’s up to you to mess that up from there).
* **No databases**. Which means less vulnerability to hacking, no processing tied up in querying and no more migration headaches (pun definitely intended) when you want to move your site.
* **Markdown**. All your posts are separate .md files (if you want). This brings us to the biggie.
* **You can write anywhere**. I am literally writing this on my phone while I get an oil change. I’ll post an entry about my setup—it works really well.
* **It’s easy to move from other platforms**.

### Cons:
* **You might miss some features**. Notice there isn’t a comment section on this blog. In this case external services like [Disqus](http://disqus.com/) are the way to go. Same thing goes for search functionality.
* **You can’t really hand it off to a client**. I mean, unless your clients are also slightly on the geeky side.

##  The Takeaway
If you're thinking about moving to a static site generator, just try it. You might find it easier than you think.


